---
layout: post
title: "Use pagen.js to Create + Deploy node.js applications on heroku"
category: posts
---

A couple of weeks ago I created pagen.js to make setting up a website with node.js faster. In this post, I will explain how you can use pagen.js to quickly deploy to heroku. the first thing you have to do is generate one of the pagen.js templates.

note: You must have the heroku toolbelt and node/npm install to continue with this tutorial

Pagen.js gives you quite a few options when generating a website; however, all of the websites use the Express.js web framework. You can generate a Mongodb-based blog, a twitter bootstrap website, or just the default static Express.js website. In this tutorial, I will be deploying the default website.


First Steps

	$ npm install pagen -g

	$ pagen blue --heroku my_directory

The first line of code will install pagen.js in the directory were 'node_modules' is located in. The next will actually generate the code in your desired directory (my_directory). The '--heroku' argument is what creates the shell script to initialize heroku and git in your directory. I picked blue since that's my favorite of the default colors; however, you can pick whatever color scheme you want-- see theREADME.md for more information on color selection.

At this point, all you really have to do is initialize the heroku app and commit/push to github.

Final Steps

	$ heroku create

	$ git commit -m "first commit'

	$ git push heroku master

Conclusion

There, with only a few command, you have your node.js server running on a heroku stack.
To learn more about pagen.js and my other projects, you can view my github.

